## Scenarios

In CNApy you can define a scenario under which metabolic analysis like the FBA will be performed.
In essence a scenario is a set of flux constraints for a set of reactions.
These constraints can fix the flux of a reaction or set a lower and upper bounds for the flux.

The scenario can be edited via the reaction boxes on the map or the "Scenario" column of the reaction list. 
Accepted values are either a single float like `1.5` or a pair of floats like `-10, 1.2`.
A single float fixes the flux of the reaction to this value (`1.5`).
While a pair sets the lower flux bound of the reaction to the first value (`-10`) and the upper flux bound to the second value (`1.2`).
Note that in a scenario you can use values outside the defined lower/upper bound of a reaction. In such a casse the scenario will supersede the reaction bounds which allows temporary modification of the bounds without the need to change the model.

![
**Reaction box with scenario value.**
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cnapy-org/CNApy-guide/main/content/images/scenario-box.png "Reaction box with scenario value"){#fig:scenario-box}

Reactions boxes with scenario constraints are marked by the scenario color and a green frame.
The frame turns yellow, if the scenario constraint lies outside the reaction bounds of the model.

To remove the constraints on a reaction simply delete the scenario value in the reaction box or "Scenario" column of the reaction list.

You can save and load scenarios as `*.scen` files. One scenario can be set as the default scenario of your project.
This can be done via *set current scenario as default scenario* in the *Scenario* menu.
The project must then be saved, and the next time you open the project the scenario is already set.

CNApy implements an edit history for the scenario with the tool buttons you can undo and redo your changes to the scenario.
You can also import all the values that are currently in the reaction boxes into the scenario (can be useful for applying a MCS), and you can change the model's reaction bounds to the current scenario values.
