## Analysis functions

### Flux balance analysis (FBA)

Optimizes the value of the current objective function and shows a flux distribution that realizes this optimum.
The objective function is a linear function over the reaction rates in the network, its coefficients can be modified in the reaction dialogs.
To display the current objective function you can choose *Show optimization function* from the *Analysis* menu.
The current objective function in shown in the console.
Note that the flux distribution calculated by FBA is usually not unique.

### Parsimonious FBA (pFBA)

In parsimonious FBA first the objective function optimized and then with this optimum as additional constraint the sum of the fluxes in the network is minimized.
This has the advantage that redundant internal cyclic fluxes are suppressed and that a lot of reactions will have zero flux which makes the solution easier to understand.

### Flux variability analysis (FVA)

In FVA the maximal/minimal rate of each reaction is calculated.
This gives the possible flux range for each reaction.

### Elementary modes (EFM)/elementary flux vectors (EFV)

EFM can be calculated via CNA or directly via efmtool while for EFV CNA is required.

![
**Elementary Flux Mode Computation Dialog.**
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cnapy-org/users-guide/main/content/images/efm-dialog.png "Elementary Flux Mode Computation Dialog"){#fig:efm-dialog}

#### Options for CNA and efmtool

When reactions are marked with 0 flux in a scenario and the option “consider 0 in current scenario as off” is activated then only the subset of EFM/EFV is calculated in which these reactions do not participate

#### Additional options for CNA

- use flux bounds to calculate elementary flux vectors
To calculate EFV instead of EFM, activate this option. Flux bounds defined in the reactions and the current scenario are then taken into account as inhomogeneous constraints.
A flux bound is only included when its absolute value is greater than the value given as “Threshold for bounds to be unconstrained”.

- check reversibility

Unchecking this option will lead to all reactions being considered reversible even if they have a rate minimum ≥ 0.

- only convex basis

Currently has no effect (need to be able to switch computation method first).

- consider isozymes only once

If a group of reactions has the same stoichiometry then only the modes with one representative of that group are calculated.

- use rational numbers

Use rational numbers of arbitrary length for EFM/EFV computation (efmtool part only, results will still appear as floating point numbers)
To calculate EFV instead of EFM, activate this option.
Flux bounds defined in the reactions and the current scenario are then taken into account as inhomogeneous constraints.
A flux bound is only included when its absolute value is greater than the value given as “Threshold for bounds to be unconstrained”.

### Minimal cut sets

Minimal cut sets (MCS) can be calculated in CNApy using the dual method.

![
**Minimal cut sets computation dialog.**
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cnapy-org/users-guide/main/content/images/mcs-dialog.png "Minimal cut sets computation dialog"){#fig:mcs-dialog}

- Target and Desired region(s)

For the dual method one or more target regions must be defined which describe the network behaviour that is to be suppressed.
In addition, one or more desired regions may be defined which describe the network behaviour that is to be preserved.
Each target/desired region is defined by a set of linear equality constraints over the reaction rates in the network.
All target and desired regions must be initially feasible or an error will be raised. Also make sure that 0 is not included in any target or desired region (0 as target cannot be suppressed and 0 as desired is always fulfilled).

Note that all non-default reaction bounds (as defined by cobra.Configuration().bounds) are automatically added to all target and desired regions before MCS computation.

- Solver

MCS can either be calculated via CNA (using either Octave or Matlab) or via optlang using different MILP solvers.
For CNA the solver must be chosen while optlang uses the solver for the current model (cf. Solver for current model).
Not all variants and solvers allow for the same options so these will partly be disabled depending on the chosen solver.

- Max. solutions

Maximal number of MCS to calculate.

- Max. size

Only calculate MCS which consists of up to this number of cuts.

- Time limit

Do not run the search for longer than this limit.
It is strongly recommended to use this parameter because MCS computation can take very long especially when searching for smallest MCS.

- MCS search

MCS can be enumerated iteratively, either the smallest first (least number of cuts) or any MCS (up to the number of cuts given by max. size).
With the latter option new MCS are found more quickly but may not be the smallest.

With CPLEX or Gurobi as solver, MCS can also be enumerated by cardinality, i.e. all MCS of successively increasing size (up to max. size) are computed.
In addition, with these solvers a continuous search mode is possible which is similar to the any MCS method but often faster.

- Gene KOs (CNA only)

If the model contains the gene-reaction association, search for gene knock-outs instead of reaction knock-outs.

- Exclude boundary reactions as cuts (optlang only)

Do not allow knock-out of boundary reactions (reactions that cross the system boundary, e.g. exchange reactions).

- Consider constraints given by scenario

Take reaction bounds set by the current scenario into account for all target and desired regions.

### Yield optimization

![
**Yield optimization dialog.**
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cnapy-org/users-guide/main/content/images/yield-optimization-dialog.png "Yield optimization dialog"){#fig:yield-dialog}

Maximizes the value of a yield function *c/d* where *c* and *d* are linear expressions over the fluxes in the network.
For this to work correctly, there must be no flux vector in the network where the denominator becomes zero and the nominator is non-zero.
The flux values of the current scenario are taken into during the optimization.

A typical application would be the maximization of a product yield: When the exchange fluxes for ethanol and glucose are *EX_etoh* and *EX_glc* then maximizing *EX_etoh/-EX_glc gives* the maximal ethanol yield on glucose.

### Phase plane plot

![
**Phase plane plot dialog.**
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cnapy-org/users-guide/main/content/images/phase-plane-dialog.png "Phase plane plot dialog"){#fig:phase-plane-dialog}

Creates a plot (in the console) that shows the projection of the solution space onto a two-dimensional plane of two selected reaction rates.
The flux values of the current scenario are taken into account during the calculations.

### Compute in/out fluxes at a metabolite

If a flux distribution has been calculated (e.g. by FBA) this function shows the magnitude of all fluxes going in/coming out of a specified metabolite.
The reaction fluxes are displayed as stacked bar graphs on the console.
You can either call this function from the Analysis menu and specify a metabolite or right-click on a metabolite in the list and call the function from the context menu.

### Clipboard calculator

![
**Clipboard calculator.**
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cnapy-org/users-guide/main/content/images/clipboard-calculator.png "Clipboard calculator"){#fig:clipboard-calc}

The clipboard calculator allows you to perform arithmetic operations with the values stored in the clipboard, the current reaction rates or a fixed value that you can enter in this dialog.
The result of the operation replaces the current flux values.

### Configure COBRApy

![
**COBRApy configuration dialog.**
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cnapy-org/users-guide/main/content/images/cobrapy-config-dialog.png "COBRApy configuration dialog"){#fig:cobrapy-config}


With this dialog selected global settings (`class cobra.Configuration()`) of the COBRApy toolbox and selected parameters of the current model can be modified. The global settings are saved, but the parameters of the current model are not and will revert to the global default values are (re-)loading a model.

- Default solver (global)

Select which solver to use as global default from the dropdown list. COBRApy supports a variety of solvers but only the ones which are installed for COBRApy on your system will be available on the list. Also, different solvers have different capabilities so you should set a default that has all capabilities that you require (e.g. glpk_exact cannot be used for MILPs).

- Solver for current model

Here you can change the solver for the current model.

- Number of processes for multiprocessing (global)

Number of processes run in parallel when Python multiprocessing is used, e.g. for FVA. Setting this to 1 disables multiprocessing.

<!-- IMPORTANT: Should be set to 1 on Windows because Python multiprocessing performs very poorly on this OS. -->
[
<i class="fas fa-info-circle fa-lg"></i> **IMPORTANT**<br>
Should be set to 1 on Windows because Python multiprocessing performs very poorly on this OS.
]{.banner .lightblue}


- Default tolerance (global)

This value is used to distinguish zero from non-zero elements for various purposes. In particular, this value is propagated to the solver (see the COBRApy source code which solver parameters are affected). Most solvers restrict the range of this value, so it must be between 1E-9 and 0.1 For details where this value is used see the COBRApy documentation and source code.

- Tolerance for the current model

Here you can change the tolerance for the current model. You may enter an arbitrary value >= 0 here but if it is not compatible with the current solver then “Apply Changes” can lead to an error message.

### Programming CNApy

##### Under Construction

- accessing the COBRApy Model
- accessing scenario and computed values
- accessing the CNApy UI